# Machine Learning Research and Implementation
 
This repository covers research and implementation of multiple machine learning algorithms for an exercise in reporting on and using these algorithms and models. This includes research done on the machine learning algorithm DBSCAN, as well as implementation of the KNN (K-nearest neighbors) algorithm to produce a model that we could compare to models generated by similarly performing algorithms.

The research portion of this repository is contained under the research-product folder. This contains a presentation of our research on how the algorithm works and how to apply it in order to produce a viable model. There is also an appendix of useful resources for further research into DSCAN’s inner workings and use, as well as a python notebook file showing basic code for applying DBSCAN.

The KNN model implementation portion is contained under the knn-implementation folder. This contains a brief presentation on the algorithm’s use and results when compared to the LASSO method. The python notebooks file used when implementing the model is also provided which includes extra comparisons of KNN’s performance to Linear Regression methods. An ETL report is provided for insight on how the data was prepared before and while implementing the KNN algorithm. The CSV used is also included in the knn-implementation folder.
 
This project was led by Elsa Carlson, Jerad Ipsen, Shannon Bayless, and Ryan-Arnold Gamilo.
 
## Data Sets
 
The data used in example code for implementing the DDSCAN algorithm in the Research portion was randomly generated data using random integers distributed into a fixed number of test columns. The data set used for implementing the KNN algorithm was the CSV provided in the Model Optimization exercise going over Dungeon & Dragon game player statistics and attributes. This data set is provided under LASSO-data-set.csv
 
## Data Extraction for Model Implementation
>A complete ETL report can be found under ETL Report.pdf.
 
The data set used was imported into a python notebooks file that was then read into a pandas data frame. The process of cleaning the data was relatively short as there were no missing values and column data types made sense. There were outlier values that were worrisome under column modifier8, however researching DND attributes we saw that these could be normal as the outlying score of “11” was common for “human” player types. There was a need to standardize the data set in order to help increase accuracy in the model, and specific columns were removed when performing feature engineering.
 
## Results
> A presentation of our research can be found under presentation-appendix.pdf.

> A presentation of our algorithm implementation can be found under KNN-Presentation.pdf.
